Set-up of the simulation study

Aim
The main aim is to evaluate analytically the impact of using different definitions of adjacency matrices on the network features, in particular, if and how weights should be defined for edges. Furthermore, the flexible parametrisation approach will be compared to the standard approaches considered in the literature.

Data-generating mechanism
Subject-specific network will be constructed that account for the heterogeneity of the biological systems across individuals. To do so, we will use a conditional Gaussian graphical model to generate undirected connections between pairs of nodes whilst taking away the effect of the remaining nodes. The proposed model assumes a homogeneous network structure in which the mean and precision matrix are constructed as a linear combination of subject-specific parameters which can represent latent processes driving the individuality of each network. As a consequence, the set of nodes for each subject-specific network will remain the same while the edge weights will vary for each individual. The obtained partial correlation coefficients constitute the weights of the edges between the 𝑝 nodes of the network, and the variability of the single-subject networks around a global network is mainly characterized by the subject-specific latent parameters. Further, the data-generation of the subject-specific networks through a conditional Gaussian graphical model in which the mean and the precision matrix depend on a linear combination of latent processes further allows a greater variability in terms of network structures that can be investigated.

Once single-subject networks are defined, they can be thresholded and the MBSF network features computed at each threshold. Clinical variables can be generated using established methods as in Binder, Sauerbrei, and Royston (2011). Outcomes are then generated by applying the assumed regression coefficients of a specific scenario to the thresholded network features and the clinical variables to compute linear predictors, and drawing outcomes accordingly.

Estimand
Methods to be compared
Performance evaluation
